Add blog post announcing move to virtual (#1656)
writethedocs/www: docs/conf/portland/2022/news/conference-going-virtual.rst

We are excited about the quality of our previous virtual events,
and look forward to iterating on and improving our event once again this year.
We have been just as excited as you at the prospect of being able to gather safely,
but we feel the need to hold off for one more year.

We're also looking at the ability for some of our meetups to host watch parties.
The details are still being worked out,
but we'd love to find a way for small groups of people to gather in this fashion.

Updated conference details
--------------------------

Our 2022 conference will be structured the same to our previous virtual events:

* Sunday, May 22: Writing Day
* Monday, May 23: Conference talks, Lightning Talks, Unconference, Social event
* Tuesday, May 24: Conference talks, Job Fair, Lightning Talks, Unconference

We're excited to experiment and improve on our existing format as well.
One change we're considering is doing scheduled Q&A blocks with 2 speakers,
so attendees don't feel rushed going from the main stage to the Q&A after every talk.

Now that we have made this decision,
we are moving on to the other tasks of launching the conference.

> We expect the full conference website, ticket sales in the next couple weeks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We expect the full conference website and ticket sales to be launched in the next couple weeks.
```

The `sponsorship prospectus <https://www.writethedocs.org/conf/portland/2022/sponsors/prospectus/>`_ is now available as well.

Reasons for going virtual
-------------------------

There are four major areas that formed the basis of our decision:

* Physical health
* Event success
* Mental health
* Organizational sustainability

The biggest worry that we have when organizing the conference is a COVID outbreak.
We were already planning a number of mitigations,
but this risk is always present whenever we gather in a large group.
Omicron has lead to the highest case counts in the USA,
and increased our anxiety about possible negative outcomes.

The quality of the event was another large factor in our decision.
We discussed at length,
but we couldn't find a good way to integrate in-person and virtual attendees.
We figured out a way to handle it for talks,

> but things like the job fair, and unconference don't lend themselves to mixing between in-person and virtual.
> The biggest requirement to do this effectively is reliable in-person WiFi,
> which has *always* proven to be difficult in the past.
> We think it is perhaps possible to integrate the two spaces well in the future,
> but we weren't able to commit to it this year.

Reviewer 2: The phrase in line 68 is not consistent with line 67, and I think lines 71 and 72 are TMI, unless we're implicitly committing to a hybrid event for 2023. So I suggest:

```suggestion
but had not solved the issue for the job fair and unconference. Hybrid conferences require
reliable in-person WiFi, which has *always* been a difficult issue in past conferences.
```

Once we started planning the event,
we realized that our hybrid event would require much more staff.
We'd effectively be running two conferences at once,
and each organizer would be able to focus on one event at a time.
This alone would stretch our existing team to the limit,
before you even consider the additional stress of COVID-related disruptions or sickness.

The other major consideration is the health of Write the Docs as a small community-supported organization.
Reserving a venue and committing to an in-person event adds a large amount of financial risk to the organization.
We are unsure of what attendance or sponsorship for the in-person event would look like,

> and having to cancel the event would be quite a hit to the organization.

Reviewer 2: Since you're explicit in other areas:

```suggestion
and cancellation fees would affect our financial health.
```

:template: {{year}}/generic.html

.. post:: Jan 26, 2022
   :tags: {{shortcode}}-{{year}}, virtual

> Conference will be only virtual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Portland conference is going back to virtual
```

Reviewer: felt a bit more relaxed?

===============================

We won't bury the lede on the announcement today:

>    The Portland 2022 conference held on May 23-25 will be fully virtual.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The Portland 2022 conference held on May 22-24 will be fully virtual again.
```

Author: 🤯

> We make this decision with the understanding that it will disappoint some of you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We make this very difficult decision with the understanding that it will disappoint some of you.
```

> We also make this decision with the knowledge that it will relieve some of you from anxiety.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also make this decision with the knowledge that it will relieve some of you from stress or anxiety.
```

> I will explain a bit more below the reasoning for this decision,

Reviewer: Do we want to keep the "we" voice or make this blog kind of a "personal message from the conference chair"? It could work either way but if we want to use "I" in the post, we should spell our Eric's name in the beginning so that the tone is consistent.

Author: Hrm yea... I'm terrible with tone. I think `We` is probably best.

> but the high-level reasons are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but the high-level issues are:
```

> * **After talking with our vendors and staff, we determined we couldn't produce the quality of event that our attendees expect, while doing a hybrid event.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **After talking with our vendors and staff, we determined we couldn't produce the quality of event that our attendees expect if we run a hybrid event.**
```

> * Omicron has changed the risk profile associated with travel & large gatherings, and increased the number of unknown risks that we face as organizers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Omicron has changed the risk profile associated with travel and large gatherings, and increased the number of unknown risks that we face as organizers.
```

We are excited about the quality of our previous virtual events,

> and look forward to iterating and improving our event once again this year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and look forward to iterating on and improving our event once again this year.
```

> We are just as excited to be able to gather safely as you are,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have been just as excited as you at the prospect of being able to gather safely,
```

but we feel the need to hold off for one more year.

We're also looking at the ability for some of our meetups to host watch parties.
The details are still being worked out,
but we'd love to find a way for small groups of people to gather in this fashion.

Updated conference details
--------------------------

Our 2022 conference will be structured the same to our previous virtual events:

> * Sunday, May 21: Writing Day

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Sunday, May 22: Writing Day
```

> * Monday, May 22: Conference talks, Lightning Talks, Unconference, Social event

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Monday, May 23: Conference talks, Lightning Talks, Unconference, Social event
```

> * Tuesday, May 23: Conference talks, Job Fair, Lightning Talks, Unconference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Tuesday, May 24: Conference talks, Job Fair, Lightning Talks, Unconference
```

Author: Not sure how I messed these up :(

We're excited to experiment and improve on our existing format as well.
One change we're considering is doing scheduled Q&A blocks with 2 speakers,

> so attendees don't feel rushed going from the main stage to the Q&A from a talk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so attendees don't feel rushed going from the main stage to the Q&A after every talk.
```

Reasons for going virtual
-------------------------

> I'd like to focus on four major areas where our decision was based:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I'd like to focus on the four major areas that formed the basis of our decision:
```

* Physical Health
* Event success
* Mental Health
* Organizational Health

The biggest worry that we have when organizing the conference is a COVID outbreak.
We were already planning a number of mitigations,
but this risk is always present whenever we gather in a large group.
Omicron has lead to the highest case counts in the USA,

> and increased our anxiety about possible negative outcomes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and increased our stress about possible negative outcomes.
```

Reviewer: Not sure why I feel that stress works better than anxiety? feel free to ignore if you don't agree

Author: I don't feel strongly, but I'll leave this one, since that's how I've been thinking about it :/

The quality of the event was another large factor in our decision.
We discussed at length,
but we couldn't find a good way to integrate in-person and virtual attendees.
We figured out a way to handle it for talks,
but things like the job fair, and unconference don't lend themselves to mixing between in-person and virtual.
The biggest requirement to do this effectively is reliable in-person WiFi,
which has *always* proven to be difficult in the past.
We think it is perhaps possible to integrate the two spaces well in the future,
but we weren't able to commit to it this year.

Once we started planning the event,
we realized that our hybrid event would require much more staff.
We'd effectively be running two conferences at once,
and each organizer would be able to focus on one event at a time.
This alone would stretch our existing team to the limit,

> without adding the stress of COVID-related disruptions or sickness on top.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
before you even consider the additional stress of COVID-related disruptions or sickness.
```

> The other major consideration is the health of Write the Docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The other major consideration is the health of Write the Docs as a small community-supported organization.
```

Reserving a venue and committing to an in-person event adds a large amount of financial risk to the organization.
We are unsure of what attendance or sponsorship for the in-person event would look like,
and having to cancel the event would be quite a hit to the organization.

Once we thought more deeply about our options to move forward,

> moving the event to virtual for this year seemed like the most prudent course of action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
keeping the event virtual for one more year seemed like the most prudent course of action.
```

> We know that we can produce a great event for our attendees,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We know that we can produce a great virtual event for our attendees,
```
